in order to be successful people often
think they have to constantly be
achieving constantly going from one
thing to the next crossing things off of
their to-do list but as a consequence
they're not in the present moment
and their productivity would be so much
greater if they stayed present as well
as their performance on their tasks
what's more is that their relationships
would improve drastically so what
research on charisma shows is that
highly charismatic people are people who
are able to be so fully present with
other people and that's what leads to
that incredible connection and that
influence that they have research shows
that our mind actually wanders about 50%
of the time and research also shows that
when our mind is wandering we are never
as happy as when our mind is in the
present moment
so if your mind in the future worrying
about something that's going to happen
or in the past because you're regretting
something or angry at somebody you're
more likely to feel more negative
emotions but when you're in the present
moment even if you're doing a task you
don't particularly like you'll actually
feel happier but also what we know is
that you'll be able to be more
productive when you're in that state
because you're going to naturally be
focused one way that you can start to
bring your mind back into the present
given its tendency to wonder is through
breathing exercises and relaxation
exercises so if you relax your body your
mind will naturally start to settle down
and breathing is a very effective way to
do that very quickly so meditation
practices can really help you observe
your mind become aware of its tendencies
for example its tendency to wander and
help you through that awareness shift
your attention back into the present
moment meditation is an exercise in
which you are engaging fully with the
present moment so it's a fantastic way
to train your mind to be more present
with what is going on right now we
currently are in a time an age where
multitasking has just become the norm
we're constantly being pinged by our
devices we're constantly receiving
emails and all day long it's as if we
were being interrupted from our stream
stream of thought what's more is that we
interrupt ourselves so we will interrupt
what we are doing to check our phones
for example so in multi
however is very draining on our system
our attention is constantly in demand
it's as if you know you're you're
working on 12 different things at the
same time you can't give your all to one
of those things with meditation
practices you can really train your mind
to be more present and help you to you
know stay on task with what is going on
a research shows that people who
meditate can increase their attention
span in fact in some research studies we
use a task called the attentional blink
task in which you show people a number
of different images in very fast
sequence and usually we would only pick
up every fourth image we don't actually
see the others that's why we call the
attentional blink well research has
shown that after meditation retreat
people tend to not show that attentional
blink or to show it less which is very
interesting means that if we calm our
mind we're somehow able to pick up
things better in our environment which
also makes sense in terms of how divided
our mind is with regards to multitasking
and so forth when our mind is very
settled then
we're able to literally see more things
register more